a classic reprint from amazing stories, august,  _the last evolution_ by john w. campbell, jr. i am the last of my type existing today in all the solar system. i, too, am the last existing who, in memory, sees the struggle for this system, and in memory i am still close to the center of rulers, for mine was the ruling type then. but i will pass soon, and with me will pass the last of my kind, a poor inefficient type, but yet the creators of those who are now, and will be, long after i pass forever. so i am setting down my record on the mentatype. it was  years after the year of the son of man. for six centuries mankind had been developing machines. the earapparatus was discovered as early as seven hundred years before. the eye came later, the brain came much later. but by , the machines had been developed to think, and act and work with perfect independence. man lived on the products of the machine, and the machines lived to themselves very happily, and contentedly. machines are designed to help and cooperate. it was easy to do the simple duties they needed to do that men might live well. and men had created them. most of mankind were quite useless, for they lived in a world where no productive work was necessary. but games, athletic contests, adventurethese were the things they sought for their pleasure. some of the poorer types of man gave themselves up wholly to pleasure and idlenessand to emotions. but man was a sturdy race, which had fought for existence through a million years, and the training of a million years does not slough quickly from any form of life, so their energies were bent to mock battles now, since real ones no longer existed. up to the year , the numbers of mankind had increased rapidly and continuously, but from that time on, there was a steady decrease. by , their number was a scant two millions, out of a population that once totaled many hundreds of millions, and was close to ten billions in . some few of these remaining two millions devoted themselves to the adventure of discovery and exploration of places unseen, of other worlds and other planets. but fewer still devoted themselves to the highest adventure, the unseen places of the mind. machineswith their irrefutable logic, their cold preciseness of figures, their tireless, utterly exact observation, their absolute knowledge of mathematicsthey could elaborate any idea, however simple its beginning, and reach the conclusion. from any three facts they even then could have built in mind all the universe. machines had imagination of the ideal sort. they had the ability to construct a necessary future result from a present fact. but man had imagination of a different kind, theirs was the illogical, brilliant imagination that sees the future result vaguely, without knowing the why, nor the how, and imagination that outstrips the machine in its preciseness. man might reach the conclusion more swiftly, but the machine always reached the conclusion eventually, and it was always the correct conclusion. by leaps and bounds man advanced. by steady, irresistible steps the machine marched forward. together, man and the machine were striding through science irresistibly. then came the outsiders. whence they came, neither machine nor man ever learned, save only that they came from beyond the outermost planet, from some other sun. siriusalpha centauriperhaps first a thin scoutline of a hundred great ships, mighty torpedoes of the void a thousand kilads1 in length, they came. and one machine returning from mars to earth was instrumental in its first discovery. the transportmachine's brain ceased to radiate its sensations, and the control in old chicago knew immediately that some unperceived body had destroyed it. an investigation machine was instantly dispatched from deimos, and it maintained an acceleration of one thousand units. they sighted ten huge ships, one of which was already grappling the smaller transportmachine. the entire foresection had been blasted away. the investigation machine, scarcely three inches in diameter, crept into the shattered hull and investigated. it was quickly evident that the damage was caused by a fusing ray. strange lifeforms were crawling about the ship, protected by flexible, transparent suits. their bodies were short, and squat, fourlimbed and evidently powerful. they, like insects, were equipped with a thick, durable exoskeleton, horny, brownish coating that covered arms and legs and head. their eyes projected slightly, protected by horny protruding wallseyes that were capable of movement in every directionand there were three of them, set at equal distances apart. the tiny investigation machine hurled itself violently at one of the beings, crashing against the transparent covering, flexing it, and striking the being inside with terrific force. hurled from his position, he fell end over end across the weightless ship, but despite the blow, he was not hurt. the investigator passed to the power room ahead of the outsiders, who were anxiously trying to learn the reason for their companion's plight. kiladunit introduced by the machines. based on the duodecimal system, similarly introduced, as more logical, and more readily used. thus we would have said  kilads, about  mile. one unit was equal to one earthgravity. this etext was produced from _amazing stories_ march  and was first published in _amazing stories_ august . extensive research did not uncover any evidence that the u.s. copyright on this publication was renewed. minor spelling and typographical errors have been corrected without note. end of project gutenberg's the last evolution, by john wood campbell