produced by david widger original short stories, complete translated by: albert m. c. mcmaster, b.a. a. e. henderson, b.a. mme. quesada and others editor's note: please see the html version for active links to all of the files below. dw. volume i. guy de maupassanta study by pol. neveux boule de suif two friends the lancer's wife the prisoners two little soldiers father milon a coup d'etat lieutenant lare's marriage the horrible madame parisse mademoiselle fifi a duel volume ii. the colonel's ideas mother sauvage epiphany the mustache madame baptiste the question of latin a meeting the blind man indiscretion a family affair beside schopenhauer's corpse volume iii. miss harriet little louise roque the donkey moiron the dispenser of holy water a parricide bertha the patron the door a sale the impolite sex a wedding gift the relic volume iv. the moribund the gamekeeper the story of a farm girl part i part ii part iii part iv part v the wreck theodule sabot's confession the wrong house the diamond necklace the marquis de fumerol the trip of le horla farewell the wolf the inn volume v. monsieur parent queen hortense timbuctoo tombstones mademoiselle pearl the thief clair de lune waiter, a bock after forgiveness in the spring a queer night in paris volume vi. that costly ride useless beauty the father my uncle sosthenes the baroness mother and son the hand a tress of hair on the river the cripple a stroll alexandre the log julie romain the rondoli sisters volume vii. the false gems fascination yvette samoris a vendetta my twentyfive days the terror legend of mont st. michel a new year's gift friend patience abandoned the maison tellier denis my wife the unknown the apparition volume viii. clochette the kiss the legion of honor the test found on a drowned man the orphan the beggar the rabbit his avenger my uncle jules the model a vagabond the fishing hole the spasm in the wood martine all over the parrot the piece of string volume ix. toine madame husson's rosier the adopted son coward old mongilet moonlight the first snowfall sundays of a bourgeois a recollection our letters the love of long ago friend joseph the effeminates old amable volume x. the christening the farmer's wife the devil the snipe the will walter schnaffs' adventure at sea minuet the son that pig of a morin saint anthony lasting love pierrot a normandy joke father matthew volume xi. the umbrella belhomme's beast discovery the accursed bread the dowry the diary of a madman the mask the penguins' rock a family suicides an artifice dreams simon's papa volume xii. the child a country excursion rose rosalie prudent regret a sister's confession coco dead woman's secret a humble drama mademoiselle cocotte the corsican bandit the grave volume xiii. old judas the little cask boitelle a widow the englishman of etretat magnetism a father's confession a mother of monsters an uncomfortable bed a portrait the drunkard the wardrobe the mountain pool a cremation misti madame hermet the magic couch alphabetical listing of the  stories a meeting a queer night in paris abandoned accursed bread, the adopted son, the after alexandre all over an artifice apparition, the at sea baroness, the beggar, the belhomme's beast bertha beside schopenhauer's corpse blind man, the boitelle boule de suif child, the christening, the clair de lune clochette coco colonel's ideas, the corsican bandit, the country excursion, a coup d'etat, a coward cremation, a cripple, the dead woman's secret denis devil, the diamond necklace, the diary of a madman, the discovery dispenser of holy water, the donkey, the door, the dowry, the dreams drunkard, the duel, a effeminates, the englishman of etretat, the epiphany false gems, the family affair, a family, a farewell farmer's wife, the fascination father matthew father milon father, the father's confession, a first snowfall, the fishing hole, the forgiveness found on a drowned man friend joseph friend patience gamekeeper, the grave, the hand, the his avenger horrible, the humble drama, a impolite sex, the in the wood indiscretion inn, the julie romain kiss, the lancer's wife, the lasting love legend of mont st. michel legion of honor, the lieutenant lare's marriage little cask, the little louise roque log, the love of long ago, the madame baptiste madame hermet madame husson's rosier madame parisse mademoiselle cocotte mademoiselle fifi mademoiselle pearl magic couch, the magnetism maison tellier, the marquis de fumerol, the martine mask, the minuet miss harriet misti model, the moiron monsieur parent moonlight moribund, the mother and son mother of monsters, a mother sauvage mountain pool, the mustache, the my twentyfive days my uncle jules my uncle sosthenes my wife new year's gift, a normandy joke, a old amable old judas old mongilet on the river orphan, the our letters parricide, a parrot, the patron, the penguins' rock, the piece of string, the pierrot portrait, a prisoners, the queen hortense question of latin, the rabbit, the recollection, a regret relic, the rondoli sisters, the rosalie prudent rose saint anthony sale, a simon's papa sister's confession, a snipe, the son, the spasm, the spring, in the story of a farm girl, the stroll, a suicides sundays of a bourgeois test, the that costly ride that pig of a morin the terror theodule sabot's confession thief, the timbuctoo toine tombstones tress of hair, a trip of le horla, the two friends two little soldiers umbrella, the uncomfortable bed, an unknown, the useless beauty vagabond, a vendetta, a waiter, a bock walter schnaffs' adventure wardrobe, the wedding gift, a widow, a will, the wolf, the wreck, the wrong house, the yvette samoris end of the project gutenberg ebook of original short stories, complete, volumes , by guy de maupassant