_twentyeightyearold william nolan, another newcomer to the field, introduces us to the capricious time door of professor c. cydwick ohms, guaranteed to solve the accumulated problems of the world of the year ._ of time and texas _by ... william f. nolan_ open the c. cydwick ohms time door, take but a single step, and in one fell swoop, declared professor c. cydwick ohms, releasing a thin blue ribbon of pipesmoke and rocking back on his heels, i intend to solve the greatest problem facing mankind today. colonizing the polar wastes was a messy and fruitless business. and the enforced birth control program couldn't be enforced. overpopulation still remains the thorn in our side. gentlemen he paused to look each of the assembled reporters in the eye. there is but _one_ answer. mass annihilation quavered a cub reporter. posh, boy certainly not the professor bristled. the answer istime time exactly, nodded ohms. with a dramatic flourish he swept aside a red velvet drapeto reveal a tall structure of gleaming metal. as witness golly, what's _that_ thing queried the cub. this _thing_, replied the professor acidly, is the c. cydwick ohms time door. whillikers, a time machine not so, not so. _please_, boy a time machine, in the popular sense, is impossible. wild fancy however the professor tapped the dottle from his pipe. by a mathematically precise series of infinite calculations, i have developed the remarkable c. cydwick ohms time door. open it, take but a single stepand, presto the past but, _where_ in the past, prof. ohms smiled easily down at the tense ring of faces. gentlemen, beyond this door lies the sprawling giant of the southwestenough land to absorb earth's overflow like _that_ he snapped his fingers. i speak, gentlemen, of texas,  what if the texans _object_ they have no choice. the time door is strictly a oneway passage. i saw to that. it will be utterly impossible for anyone in  to reenter our world of . and nowthe past awaits he tossed aside his professorial robes. under them cydwick ohms wore an ancient and bizarre costume: black riding boots, highly polished and trimmed in silver; wool chaps; a wide, jewelstudded belt with an immense buckle; a brightly checked shirt topped by a blazing red bandana. briskly, he snapped a tall tengallon hat on his head, and stepped to the time door. gripping an ebony handle, he tugged upward. the huge metal door oiled slowly back. time, said cydwick ohms simply, gesturing toward the gray nothingness beyond the door. the reporters and photographers surged forward, notebooks and cameras at the ready. what if the door swings shut after you're gone one of them asked. a groundless fear, boy, assured ohms. i have seen to it that the time door can never be closed. and nowgoodbye, gentlemen. or, to use the proper colloquialism_so long, hombres_ ohms bowed from the waist, gave his tengallon hat a final tug, and took a single step forward. and did _not_ disappear. he stood, blinking. then he swore, beat upon the unyielding wall of grayness with clenched fists, and fell back, panting, to his desk. i've failed he moaned in a lost voice. the c. cydwick ohms time door is a botch he buried his head in trembling hands. the reporters and photographers began to file out. suddenly the professor raised his head. _listen_ he warned. a slow rumbling, muted with distance, emanated from the dense grayness of the time door. faint yips and whoopings were distinct above the rumble. the sounds grew steadilyto a thousand beating drumsto a rolling sea of thunder shrieking, the reporters and photographers scattered for the stairs. ah, another knotty problem to be solved, mused professor cydwick ohms, swinging, with some difficulty, onto one of three thousand texas steers stampeding into the laboratory. this etext was produced from _fantastic universe_ november . extensive research did not uncover any evidence that the u.s. copyright on this publication was renewed. minor spelling and typographical errors have been corrected without note. end of the project gutenberg ebook of of time and texas, by william f. nolan