this etext was produced from galaxy science fiction august . extensive research did not uncover any evidence that the u.s. copyright on this publication was renewed. fellow city mgrs., only you can help meprogress has made go fight city hall a battle cry to: all city managers from: ross ro, new york city manager subject: gelatin molds well, boys, this is going to be rather an informal communication because i think there's a serious lesson for you in a situation we had here recently. i might as well be the first to tell you about it. you'll hear about it soon enough anyway. frankly, i'm hoping you'll have a heart and lend a brother city manager a hand. as you boys know, i was reelected last april to my post as city manager for another four years and i felt pretty good about it. so good that i was looking around for something to do which would sort of let the voters of little old new york know how i felt about them. most of you have met my political assistant charlie tightor, rather, my expolitical assistant. charlie was looking around, too, and he came up with the idea of covering over central park. we have never covered over central park with the permaplast roof like the rest of the city because it is a fairly large area and there wasn't any public demand for it. so naturally it rains and snows there and we spend a lot of dough keeping the grass cut and what have you. it's a popular spot with a lot of folks. charlie figuredand i must admit that i agreed with himthat covering over central park was quite an idea. controlled conditions would let the grass grow only so much and the temperature would remain constant. no rain or snow except from  a.m. to  a.m., when we would put in a little artificial precipitation to keep the greenery going. plenty of nice airconditioned air. eternal spring. really uptodate. we put it through the computer down at the civic machine and figured it would cost only about  hundred million. it looked real good. you see, we recently got a new addition to the civic machine and the manufacturer gave us a deal on a new model projector for the whole city. it makes constant forecasts on practically everything we need from moment to moment. it doesn't wait for a tech to run the data thru it. saves a lot of time because it's directly connected with supply. this projector is so good that we have been able to cut down on expenses about  hundred million in only two years. i figured this would easily pay for the permaplast roof over good old central park. to make a long story short, i went before the people on tv and told the whole story. charlie had the tv techs mock up a scene of what it would look like and we had models posed in family scenes and the like. should have gone over like a shotand it would have, except for this screwball hatty dakkon. it wasn't an hour after i had made my broadcast that my secretary announced this mrs. hatty dakkon. she proved to be a young matron type with pretty good legs and a chip on her shoulder. she was against roofing central park. well, you boys know how it goes. always some crank who doesn't like things changed, and after they have blown off steam, they quiet down and you can go ahead and do the work. so i let this hatty dakkon talk on and on until my ears were limp from listening. she said she was against roofing central park because it would be just like every other place in the cityweatherproof, airconditioned and humidity controlled. she figured that children should have some place where they could feel the wind on their faces and the falling of rain and snow and the smell of air as it was in nature. she said that was the only way most of our children could ever, ever find the ties with the past that were sacred. she quoted poetry about the wind and the rain in your hair, and on and on and on. finally i let her talk off her head of steam and she got calmed down so i could tell her: thank you, madam, for this expression of your opinion. you can rest assured that i will do everything within my power and the power of the civic machine to see to it that anything possible is done. her head came up like a rocket at blastoff. hold it she said. you can't put me off with that old onethat's standard answer no.  in the city manager's guidebook and i ain't buying it, buster. i used to work at the civic machine myself, so i know all the standard answers backward and forward. well, i assure you, madam i said. don't hand me that stuff again. what i want is for you to call off the civic machine and quit trying to roof the only place left where our children can feel the open air and sunshine. i see. you aren't going to be satisfied with anything else, i said. that's right. i'm sorry, but that's impossible. we have programmed the roofing job for next month on the civic machine and we can't change it now. that, mr. ro, is a lie, she said, leaning across my desk and sticking a slim white finger under my nose. i know you can change it in five minutes if you want to. it won't be changed, i said. is that your final word final. mr. ro, she said, putting her hands on her hips, i think you'll be sorry. she headed for the door, only to turn around and ask me if my wife was at home. i suppose she is, i said, but don't bother hershe takes no interest in civic affairs. i don't have to tell you boys that i dismissed the lady from my mind and went on to other more important matters. or so i thought. when i got home that night, i didn't say anything about hatty dakkon. my wife is inclined to see things differently than i do and i had a hunch she would side with hatty. consequently, rather than get into a discussion, i just let it slide. not too many of you boys know my wife, but those who do know that she is like so many other womennot particularly interested in any civic machine. just so she gets what she wants when she dials the home connection to the machine is all she is interested in. that night, though, my wife surprised me by having a burning interest in the civic machine. she wanted to know all about it. how it produces the consumer products. how it gets them to the living area. how it knows what to order. and she especially quizzed me about the new projector. when i asked her why she wanted to know about all that after  years of married life, she just smiled sweetly and said that naturally she was interested in my work. next day, i brought home a sample programming sheet for her to see and damned if she didn't dismiss it with a sniff as being too complicated and boring. go figure women out that night, we had two molded gelatin dishes. the round kind with a hole in the center. the next night, we had the same kind of supper, except that instead of fish and something in gelatin, we had meat and something in gelatin. same sort of deal for dessert. the next day, i got my first tip that something was up when willie kipe, the caster for nyctv, called me and asked about the protest on the central park roofing proposal, saying he got the item from his woman assistant. i said it didn't amount to much and that the project was going ahead on schedule. i caught willie's cast that night and he treated it in a light manner which really made me smile. i should have been crying instead. that night, we had some more molded gelatin, only in square molds this time. same thing the next day. i figured it was time to take a standa diplomatic one, of course. honey, i said as i sat toying with my food, can't we have different dishes every night i'm getting tired of all this gelatin junk. how about a steak but, darling, gelatin is very good for you. it's simply crammed full of protein and all the girls at the club are eating lots of gelatin. but i don't like gelatin _that_ well, i said. i don't, either, but it's so good for _both_ of us, she said with her best don'ttrytoarguemotherknowsbest smile. i had a steak that night after she went to bed. the next day, i got a call from the head of the warehousing division over at civic, asking me if i had any preference on warehousing molds. what molds i wanted to know. well, let's see, he said. we've got . million round gelatin molds with a hole in the center. we've got . million square gelatin moldsno center hole. and . million figureeight gelatin molds and i understand there's a hell of a lot of deepdish gelatin molds coming up tomorrow from supply at schenectady. why in hell have we got all those molds don't know, he said. civic machine ordered them, so i suppose we need them. where do you want the storing done thought we might run up one of those new kiosk warehouses out east if you have no objection. put it anywhere you want, i said, switching off. before i could get back to work, there was a call from stats. got a little problem down here, mr. ro, said the tech. schenectady is sending us premium billing on an overorder of plastic. how much is the premium quite a little, bossabout  hundred million or thereabouts. i checked with them and the reason for the extra strong premium is because they had to rebuild the factorylet's see which one that wasoh, yes, coldmolding dishes division of the cooking receptacle plant. what do you want me to doenter a protest saying we aren't responsible and get it over to fed court where they can prorate it over the other cities nope, i guess you'd just better pay it. the chips were falling into place now and i didn't like what they were building for me. as soon as i switched off, i put in a call to my head tech at the civic machine and asked for a rundown on the food ordered for supper for the past six or eight nights. it took a while, but when i got it back, it was enough to make my hair curl and uncurl in threequarter time. first thing i did was call my wife and ask her what we were having for dinner that night. we're having your favoritesteak and kidney pie, dear, she said in that innocentlittlegirl voice that means there's trouble ahead. no more of those gelatin dishes, sweet no more of that awful gelatin, darling. i'm so tired of it. but i did order a pair of nice shears todayyou know, sweetheart, scissors yes, dear. that's nice, i said, trying to smooth down the hair on the back of my neck, which was standing straight up. the civic machine didn't have any scissors, darling, so i told it go ahead and get me a pair regardless of the wait. that was all right, wasn't it, dear fine, dear, fine. i can't imagine why the civic machine should be out of just plain old sixinch scissors, can you just can't imagine, darling. goodby. goodby, sweetie. my hand was shaking when i called the tech at the civic machine and asked him to check up on the orders for scissors. it took a minute or two, and when he came back, his face was puzzled. funny thing, bossthere is an order for just under  million pairs of scissors. that's more than we have had in the past seven or eight years. all ordered last night. there must be a mistake somewhere. i'll run it through again and have a test made of the orders section. never mind. just do this, i said. fix up the projector so it doesn't send out any order for scissors and cancel any order that has been placed. i was wringing wet with sweat. it was going to be a close one. believe me, boys, i didn't waste any time getting on fax and tv, telling everyone that there had been a change in plans due to public demand and we weren't going to be able to roof over central park after all. i suggested that, as long as the administration had cooperated, the people should cooperate on the matter. an hour later, i called the civic machine and asked for a check on scissors. the orders had dropped to a mere . million. way above normal, but the way the cancellations were coming in, it was obvious that it would be within reasonable proportions soon. just in case some of you missed the byplay on that, let me sketch it in for you as i found it out later. it seems that this hatty dakkon had organized a phone campaign on the let our children enjoy nature theme which went over big with the women. every woman called five woman friends and these five called five and so on. you figure it outwith geometrical progression, it doesn't take long to get in touch with about  million women. not as fast as tv, maybe, but a darn sight more effective and thorough. it was the talk of the women's world and we men didn't even know about it until the battle was all over. this horde of women, led by hatty dakkon, agreed that they would order the same dishgelatin in a round mold on the same night. you know what this can do to a good projector. it just went frantic. projectors work on the basis of average demand for anything, and with an average demand for round mold gelatin foods two nights in a row of about  million, it went ahead and ordered a whole conveyorload of mold dishes from schenectady. the next time, it was square molds for two nights; and the next, it was figureeight for two nights and then a double shot of deepdish. they have a new projector up at schenectady, same as we have, and it ordered an increase in the size of the moldmaking factory based on our demand which was run in with everyone else's demand. then, when the demand didn't come through from us and from the other cities in the area, we had to pay the premium for building the new factory. the scissors business would have bankrupted us completely. think of itmillions of pairs of steel scissors in the year  think of the premium for increase in size of factory, prospecting the planets, mining, spaceship freight rates, and so forth. that's why i was glad to give up the central park project. well, to make a long story short, we aren't going near central park. and charlie, who originally thought of the idea, is probably out there now, wondering why he did it. now in closing, i hope all the rest of you who have had a good laugh will sober up and sympathize with me and see what you can do about ordering gelatin molds from us. we'll ship them out prontowe have a large supplyand no reasonable offer will be refused. please, fellows end of the project gutenberg ebook of make me an offer, by con blomberg