the godplllnk this etext was produced from worlds of tomorrow december  extensive research did not uncover any evidence that the u.s. copyright on this publication was renewed. astronauts and cosmonauts when you finally reach mars, please be very careful what you look like in the shadows of a craterwall on phobos, moon of mars, grg and yrl waited to greet the god. if the god continued its present rate of approach, it would land within moments. grg and yrl had journeyed all night, with their eyes on that distant glinting speck in the sky. over coldcrusted sand dunes and jagged crater walls they had flowed, crept, bounded, oozed, toward the spot where the god must land if its course held true. grg was a fsgh, which is the equivalent of high priest, yrl was a ffssgghh, or much higher priest. the best wishes of their people had gone with them on their tremendous mission. now, at the place, they trembled in every tentacle as they peered upward. the rustred orb of mars rode the black horizon. mars was, as grg and yrl had learned from their elders and now taught their youngers, the stern seeingall eye of it who was the universe. from that great eye, a day ago, had sprung a shining messenger, an emissary, a god that must be coming on a purposeful visit. it had been detected at the halfway point of its trip. but there could be no doubt regarding its origin, its nature, its destination for, in the matter of form, the god was a close replica of grg and yrlof all the creatures of their race it was octopidal, with sinewy double tentacles, and a thinking trunk, and a reproduction pouch the only significant difference was that the god gleamed mysteriously, as if its angular, hardline representation of normal form were cast in shining stone. as it flew it reflected starlightand the red glow of the universal eye behind itfrom its sleek surfaces. grg and yrl blinked their own dullsurfaced, astronomically farsighted, rustred eyes at each other in supreme excitement and anticipation. what would the god tell them what would it reveal would it divulge the cosmic secret would it tell them the place and destiny of their lowly race had it come to punish them for not being good enough, for overreproducing, for worshipping improperly from a selfish standpoint, it might even tell them how to get rid of the _plllnk_a subject of constant prayer. how smoothly it flew while grg and yrl and their people could bound about with a great agility in phobos' light gravity, they could not _fly_. how wonderful it would be to fly, said yrl. perhaps, said grg, we have been found ready to be taught then grg twitched as a _plllnk_ bit him, just under the front left doubletentacle. he combed the light fur there, found the _plllnk_, and shredded it, casting the pieces roundabout so that no two of them might combine to form another _plllnk_. how wonderful it would be also if the god could tell them how to get rid of the itching, crawling, parasitic _plllnk_, whose bite, in sufficient numbers, was often fatal... the god began to land. it shot red flame downward from its mouth, on the underside of its gleaming body. red flickers and sharpedged black shadows danced about the two who waited below. they shrank back, fearful that the display might be a disapproving communicationyet they held their ground, knowing they had lived good lives and deserved no condemnation on any score they could imagine. the god lowered, on its belching tongue of flamethe flame that seemed a tiny part, a sliver, of the universal eye that watched. strange marks were on the side of the god's body. they were: 1st mars expeditionu. s. space forceplanettosatellite crewboat no. . the last few moments of the god's descent were quite rapid. simultaneously, the darting red flames seemed to lessen in intensity and length. then, at the second of impact, they brightened again to previous powerbut too late. the impact was hard. grg and yrl gasped as one of the god's doubletentacles buckled, crumpled, with a glinting of shinyhard material. the flames stopped. the god, unable to remain erect with its injury, slowly toppled. its body thudded silently, stirring pumice dust. it was motionless. grg and yrl stared at each other. was the god fatally injured dying dead for a broken tentacle meant that fluids would seep out, and soon the drydeath would occur. the god stirred. it braced two sets of tentacles against the ground, as if trying to push itself erect. the effort was not successful. again it was motionless. the two doubletentacles remained outstretched, howeverand they pointed at the shadows where grg and yrl waited and watched. grg and yrl sighed in relief. the god had assumed conversationposition. it must have healed its broken tentacletruly a god soon it would be as good as new; for otherwise, agony would forbid conversation. it was ready to address them. now. this was the greatest moment of grg's and yrl's lives. they waited for the god to speak. it was silent. a long time passed. the god remained motionless, though in conversationposition, and silent. a _very_ long time passed. then a tiny hole appeared in the god's side. it grew largerlargerand then it stopped growing larger. something appeared at the hole. it paused, then dropped to the surface of phobos, where it began to crawl about. it bore considerable resemblance to a _plllnk_, except for its shinywrinkled grey skin _plllnks_ were purple. and this thing was huge_huge_. it was onefifth the size of the god's body. caught by horror, and fearing the worst, grg and yrl waited for the god to speak. _damn_, john cotter was thinking. _that was a neat bit of sloppiness, that landing.... carruthers will chew me out and in again_ pause: _holy cats, i hope the radio isn't busted, or i'll have a helluva wait before they follow up and find me..._ the god was dead. killed by the giant _plllnk_a scourge from which, evidently, even the gods were not spared. the huge _plllnk_, even now creeping aroundwrinkleskinned and detestable, its coloration the same as the god's; the most loathsome sight imaginable ... a god_plllnk_ grg and yrl moved into view, from the shadows of the crater wall. their thinking trunks tingled with misery, sorrow, bitter anger and disappointment. the _plllnk_ stopped, having sensed them. then it darted for the hole it had eaten in the god. yrl moved to intercept it. the _plllnk_ changed course and headed swiftly up a sand dune. with a great bound, impelled by outrage, yrl was upon it. while grg touched tentacles with the dead god, in reverent mourning, in terrible sorrow, in loss, in supplication, yrl shredded the god_plllnk_. two days later, a second god was detected. it silently circled phobos from the universal eye. it did not land. it silently circled phobos, and then returned to the eye. within the day, it was back, in the company of eleven other gods. they landed. joyfully, mortals went forth to meet them. it was quite a battle while it lasted. joy quickly ended, as the gods died one by one, each of them showing the holes eaten in their sides by the insatiable _plllnks_. likewise, eventually, died all the _plllnks_, which presumably had killed the gods. they fought with strange white flares and crackling blue flashes, which only tickled the hides of the faithful. then they were shredded. religious beliefs on phobos underwent certain basic changes. such as: the gods, or at least their messengers, were known not to be immortal. nor were the special variety of _plllnk_ which afflicted them.... on earth, twenty years afterward, word is anxiously awaited of the 4th mars expedition. end end of the project gutenberg ebook of the godplllnk, by jerome bixby