blued: of a wages cheque: all spent extravagantlyand rapidly. bluey: swag. supposedly because blankets were mostly blue so lawson boggabri: probably aboriginal for several low herbs, esp. amaranthus mitchelli, chenopodium pumilio, c. carinatum and commelina cyanea scurvy grass; also a town in nsw. australian national dictionary, oup  what then is a 'tatermarrer' potatomarrow. any help bowyangs: ties cord, rope, cloth put around trouser legs below knee bullocky: bullock driver. a man who drove teams of bullocks yoked to wagons carrying, e.g., wool bales or provisions. proverbially rough and foul mouthed. bush: originally referred to the low tangled scrubs of the semidesert regions 'mulga' and 'mallee', and hence equivalent to outback. now used generally for remote rural areas the bush and scrubby forest. bushfire: wild fires: whether forest fires or grass fires. bushmanbushwoman: someone who lives an isolated existence, far from cities, in the bush. today: a bushy bushranger: an australian highwayman, who lived in the 'bush' scruband attacked especially gold carrying coaches and banks. romanticised as antiauthoritarian robin hood figurescf. ned kellybut usually very violent. cheque: wages for a full season of sheepshearing; meant to last until the next year, including a family, but often 'blued' in a 'spree' chyack: chyike like chaffing; to tease, mildly abuse cocky: a farmer, esp. dairy farmers 'cowcockies' cubbyhouse, or cubby: children's playhouse wendy house is commercial form darlinghurst: sydney suburb, where the gaol was in those days dead marine: empty beer bottle dossing: sleeping rough or poorly as in a dosshouse doughboy: kind of dumpling drover: one who droves cattle or sheep. droving: driving on horseback cattle or sheep from where they were fattened to a a city, or later, a railhead. drown the miller: to add too much water to flour when cooking. used metaphorically in story. fossick: pick over areas for gold. not mining as such. halfcaser: two shillings and sixpence. as a coin, a halfcrown. halfsov.: a coin worth half a pound sovereign gladesville: sydney suburb, where the mental hospital used to be goanna: various kinds of monitor lizards. can be quite a size. homebush: saleyard, market area in sydney humpy: originally an aboriginal shelter gunyah; extended to a settler's hut jackaroo: jack kangaroo; sometimes jackeroosomeone, in early days a new immigrant from england, learning to work on a sheepcattle station u.s. ranch jumbuck: a sheep best known from waltzing matilda: where's that jolly jumbuck, you've got in your tucker bag. larrikin: anything from a disrespectful young man to a violent member of a gang push. was considered a major social problem in sydney of the 's to . the bulletin, a magazine in which much of lawson was published, spoke of the aggressive, softhatted stoush brigade. anyone today who is disrespectful of authority or convention is said to show the larrikin element in the australian character. larrikiness: jocular feminine form leatherjacket: kind of pancake more often a fish, these days lucerne: cattle feeda leguminous plant, alfalfa in us lumper: labourer; esp. on wharves mallee: dwarfed eucalyptus trees growing in very poor soil and under harsh rainfall conditions. usually many stems emerging from the ground, creating a low thicket. maoriland: lawson's name for new zealand marine, dead: see 'dead marine' mooching: wandering idly, not going anywhere in particular mug: gullible person, a conman's 'mark' potential victim mulga: acacia sp. wattle in australian especially acacia aneura; growing in semidesert conditions. used as a description of such a harsh region. mullock: the tailings left after gold has been removed. in lawson generally mud alluvial rather than rock myall: aboriginal living in a traditional preconquest manner narked: annoyed navvies: labourers especially making roads, railways; originally canals, thus from 'navigators' nobbler: a drink nuggety: compact but strong physique; small but wellmuscled pannikin: metal mug peckish: hungryusually only mildly so. use here is thus ironic. poley: a dehorned cow poddycalf: a calf separated from its mother but still needing milk rouseabout: labourer in a sheep shearing shed. considered to be, as far as any work is, unskilled labour. sawney: silly, gormless selector: small farmer who under the selection act alienation of land act, sydney  could settle on a few acres of land and farm it, with hope of buying it. as the land had been leased by squatters to run sheep, they were not popular. the land was usually pretty poor, and there was little transport to get food to market, many, many failed. the same mistake was made after wwi when returned soldiers were given land to starve on. shanty: besides common meaning of shack it refers to an unofficial and illegal grogshop; in contrast to the legal 'pub'. spieler: con artist sliprails: in lieu of a gate, the rails of a fence may be loosely socketed into posts, so that they may 'let down' i.e. one end pushed in socket, the other end resting on the ground. see 'a day on a selection' spree: prolonged drinking boutdays, weeks. stoush: a fight strike: perhaps the shearers' strike in barcaldine, queensland,  gjc sundowner: a swagman see who is not looking for work, but a handout. lawson explains the term as referring to someone who turns up at a station at sundown, just in time for tea i.e. the evening meal. in view of the great depression of the time, these expressions of attitude are probably unfair, but the attitudes are common enough even today. surry hills: sydney inner suburb home for this transcriber swagman swaggy: generally, anyone who is walking in the outback with a swag. see the romance of the swag in children of the bush, also a pg etext lawson also restricts it at times to those whom he considers to be tramps, not looking for work but for handouts. see 'travellers'. 'swelp: mild oath of affirmation so help me god travellers: shearers and rouseabouts travelling for work lawson. whare: small maori houseis it used here for european equivalent help anyone whipping the cat: drunk end of the project gutenberg ebook of while the billy boils, by henry lawson